pico(1)							  pico(1)



Name
       pico  -	simple	text editor in the style of the Pine Com-
       poser

Syntax
       pico [ options ] [ file ]

Description
       Pico is a simple, display-oriented text	editor	based  on
       the  Pine message system composer.  As with Pine, commands
       are displayed at the bottom of the  screen,  and	 context-
       sensitive  help is provided.  As characters are typed they
       are immediately inserted into the text.

       Editing commands are entered  using  control-key	 combina-
       tions.	As a work-around for communications programs that
       swallow certain control characters, you can emulate a con-
       trol key by pressing ESCAPE twice, followed by the desired
       control character, e.g. "ESC ESC c" would be equivalent to
       entering	 a  ctrl-c.   The editor has five basic features:
       paragraph justification,	 searching,  block  cut/paste,	a
       spelling checker, and a file browser.

       Paragraph  justification	 (or  filling) takes place in the
       paragraph that contains the cursor, or, if the  cursor  is
       between	lines, in the paragraph immediately below.  Para-
       graphs are delimited by blank lines, or by lines beginning
       with  a space or tab.  Unjustification can be done immedi-
       ately after justification using the control-U key combina-
       tion.

       String  searches	 are  not  sensitive  to  case.	 A search
       begins at the current cursor position and wraps around the
       end of the text.	 The most recent search string is offered
       as the default in subsequent searches.

       Blocks of text can be moved, copied or deleted  with  cre-
       ative  use of the command for mark (ctrl-^), delete (ctrl-
       k) and undelete (ctrl-u).  The delete command will  remove
       text  between  the "mark" and the current cursor position,
       and place it in the "cut" buffer.   The	undelete  command
       effects a "paste" at the current cursor position.

       The spell checker examines all words in the text.  It then
       offers, in turn, each misspelled word for correction while
       highlighting  it	 in the text.  Spell checking can be can-
       celled at any time.  Alternatively, pico	 will  substitute
       for  the	 default spell checking routine a routine defined
       by the SPELL environment variable.  The	replacement  rou-
       tine should read standard input and write standard output.

       The file browser is offered as  an  option  in  the  "Read
       File"  and "Write Out" command prompts.	It is intended to
       help in searching for specific files and navigating direc-
       tory  hierarchies.   Filenames  with  sizes  and	 names of
       directories in the current working directory are presented
       for selection.  The current working directory is displayed
       on the top line of the display while the list of available
       commands	 takes	up  the	 bottom	 two.  Several basic file
       manipulation  functions	are  supported:	  file	renaming,
       copying, and deletion.

       More specific help is available in pico's online help.

Options
       +n     Causes pico to be started with the cursor located n
	      lines into the file. (Note: no  space  between  "+"
	      sign and number)

       -a     Display  all files including those beginning with a
	      period (.).

       -b     Enable the option to  Replace  text  matches  found
	      using the "Where is" command.

       -d     Rebind the "delete" key so the character the cursor
	      is on is rubbed out rather than  the  character  to
	      its left.

       -e     Enable file name completion.

       -f     Use  function  keys for commands.	 This option sup-
	      ported only in conjunction with  UW  Enhanced  NCSA
	      telnet.

       -h     List valid command line options.

       -j     Enable  "Goto"  command  in the file browser.  This
	      enables the command to  permit  explicitly  telling
	      pilot which directory to visit.

       -g     Enable  "Show  Cursor" mode in file browser.  Cause
	      cursor to be positioned before the  current  selec-
	      tion  rather  than  placed at the lower left of the
	      display.

       -k     Causes "Cut Text" command to remove characters from
	      the  cursor  position to the end of the line rather
	      than remove the entire line.

       -m     Enable mouse functionality.  This only  works  when
	      pico  is run from within an X Window System "xterm"
	      window.

       -nn    The -nn option enables new mail notification.   The
	      n argument is optional, and specifies how often, in
	      seconds, your mailbox is checked for new mail.  For
	      example,	-n60  causes  pico  to check for new mail
	      once every minute.  The  default	interval  is  180
	      seconds, while the minimum allowed is 30. (Note: no
	      space between "n" and the number)

       -o dir Sets operating directory.	 Only files  within  this
	      directory	  are  accessible.   Likewise,	the  file
	      browser is limited to the specified directory  sub-
	      tree.

       -rn    Sets  column  used to limit the "Justify" command's
	      right margin

       -s speller
	      Specify an alternate  program  spell  to	use  when
	      spell checking.

       -t     Enable "tool" mode.  Intended for when pico is used
	      as  the  editor  within  other  tools  (e.g.,  Elm,
	      Pnews).  Pico will not prompt for save on exit, and
	      will not rename the buffer during the  "Write  Out"
	      command.

       -v     View the file only, disallowing any editing.

       -version
	      Print Pico version and exit.

       -w     Disable  word  wrap  (thus  allow	 editing  of long
	      lines).

       -x     Disable keymenu at the bottom of the screen.

       -z     Enable ^Z suspension of pico.

       -p     Preserve the "start" and "stop"  characters,  typi-
	      cally  Ctrl-Q  and Ctrl-S, which are sometimes used
	      in  communications  paths	 to  control  data   flow
	      between devices that operate at different speeds.

       -Q quotestr
	      Set  the quote string.  Especially useful when com-
	      posing email, setting this allows the quote  string
	      to  be  checked  for when Justifying paragraphs.	A
	      common quote string is "> ".

       -q     Termcap or terminfo  definition  for  input  escape
	      sequences	 are  used  in	preference  to	sequences
	      defined by default.  This option is only	available
	      if  pico	was compiled with the TERMCAP_WINS define
	      turned on.

       Lastly,	when  a	 running  pico	is  disconnected   (i.e.,
       receives	 a  SIGHUP),  pico  will save the current work if
       needed before exiting.  Work is saved  under  the  current
       filename	 with  ".save"	appended.  If the current work is
       unnamed, it is saved under the filename "pico.save".


Bugs
       The manner in which lines longer than  the  display  width
       are dealt is not immediately obvious.  Lines that continue
       beyond the edge of the display  are  indicated  by  a  '$'
       character at the end of the line.  Long lines are scrolled
       horizontally as the cursor moves through them.

Files
       pico.save	Unnamed interrupted work saved here.
       *.save		Interrupted work on a named file is saved here.

Authors
       Michael Seibel <mikes@cac.washington.edu>
       Laurence Lundblade <lgl@cac.washington.edu>
       Pico was originally derived from MicroEmacs 3.6,	 by  Dave
       G. Conroy.
       Pico is a trademark of the University of Washington.
       Copyright 1989-2002 by the University of Washington.

See Also
       pine(1)
       Source distribution (part of the Pine Message System):
	  ftp://ftp.cac.washington.edu/mail/pine.tar.Z

       $Date: 2002/12/06 22:01:11 $



			   Version 4.4			  pico(1)
