TAIL(1)			  User Commands			  TAIL(1)



NAME
       tail - output the last part of files

SYNOPSIS
       tail [OPTION]... [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       Print  the  last 10 lines of each FILE to standard output.
       With more than one FILE, precede each with a header giving
       the  file  name.	  With	no  FILE, or when FILE is -, read
       standard input.

       Mandatory arguments to  long  options  are  mandatory  for
       short options too.

       --retry
	      keep trying to open a file even if it is inaccessi-
	      ble when tail starts or if it becomes  inaccessible
	      later -- useful only with -f

       -c, --bytes=N
	      output the last N bytes

       -f, --follow[={name|descriptor}]
	      output  appended data as the file grows; -f, --fol-
	      low, and --follow=descriptor are equivalent

       -F     same as --follow=name --retry

       -n, --lines=N
	      output the last N lines, instead of the last 10

       --max-unchanged-stats=N
	      with --follow=name, reopen a  FILE  which	 has  not
	      changed  size after N (default 5) iterations to see
	      if it has been unlinked or  renamed  (this  is  the
	      usual case of rotated log files)

       --pid=PID
	      with -f, terminate after process ID, PID dies

       -q, --quiet, --silent
	      never output headers giving file names

       -s, --sleep-interval=S
	      with  -f,	 each  iteration  lasts	 approximately	S
	      (default 1) seconds

       -v, --verbose
	      always output headers giving file names

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
	      output version information and exit

       If the first character of N (the number of bytes or lines)
       is a `+', print beginning with the Nth item from the start
       of each file, otherwise, print the last	N  items  in  the
       file.   N  may  have a multiplier suffix: b for 512, k for
       1024, m for 1048576 (1 Meg).

       With --follow (-f), tail defaults to  following	the  file
       descriptor,  which  means  that	even if a tail'ed file is
       renamed, tail  will  continue  to  track	 its  end.   This
       default	behavior is not desirable when you really want to
       track the actual name of the file, not the file descriptor
       (e.g.,  log  rotation).	 Use  --follow=name in that case.
       That causes tail to track the named file by  reopening  it
       periodically  to	 see if it has been removed and recreated
       by some other program.

AUTHOR
       Written by Paul Rubin, David MacKenzie, Ian Lance  Taylor,
       and Jim Meyering.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-textutils@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       This  is	 free software; see the source for copying condi-
       tions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY
       or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for tail is maintained as a Texinfo
       manual.	If  the	 info  and  tail  programs  are	 properly
       installed at your site, the command

	      info tail

       should give you access to the complete manual.



tail (textutils) 2.1	    July 2002			  TAIL(1)
