
***Homework for Thursday, September 27th***

+60: The game runs without exceptions*, and generates valid output for at least one state.
Okay, at first I was going to be ambitious and attempt to write a ghost game. I'm sure it would have worked if I had more time
but in my case, I realized that my ambition may make me fail this assignment. So I switched gears and found a new game to create
called Gomoku and this is a Japanese game played with Go pieces where it is basically the love-child of tic-tac-toe and connect four.
As you can see, this game worked out alot better than the ghost game would have. However, although this game can be played interactively,
as the difficulty increases, it takes hours for AB to pick a move. The highest AB can go without getting stuck is 6. After that, it takes a really long time.
This may be because of the board size though.

+5: Show that the state space of the game contains at least 50 states
This Gomoku game does produce more than 50 states due to the amount of places the pieces can be placed.

+10: A display method displays game boards clearly.
The Gomoku game is displayed.

+5: A game that plays at least 3 moves interactively, Ask vs. AB(3)
The Gomoku game does play interactively when Ask plays first.

+5: A game that plays at least 3 moves interactively, AB(3) vs. Ask
The Gomoku game does play interactively when AB(3) goes first.

+2: A state that yields a better solution with AB(2) than AB(0) (I thought about this interactively)
In AB(0), it does not even think to block my pieces, however, the AB(2) does begin to block my pieces.

+2: A state that yields a better solution with AB(4) than AB(2) (I thought about this interactively)
In AB(2), it attempts to block my pieces but I can still win. In AB(4), it becomes alot harder to win due to AB blocking the piece when I am close to winning.

+2  A state that yields a better solution with AB(6) than AB(4) (I thought about this interactively)
In AB(4), it blocks more of my pieces when you get to four in the row. But in AB(6), it blocks your pieces when I am three in a row or even two in a row.
It becomes a lot more aggressive.

+5: A game that plays at least 12 'interesting' moves
I think the moves are somewhat interesting especially on higher difficulties since it take longer for AB to think and it tries alot harder to win.

+5: Pushed an 80-point solution by Tuesday, Sep. 25 before 6:00 am
I hope I hit 80-points this time.

