CHOWN(1)		       FSF			 CHOWN(1)



NAME
       chown - change file owner and group

SYNOPSIS
       chown [OPTION]... OWNER[:[GROUP]] FILE...
       chown [OPTION]... :GROUP FILE...
       chown [OPTION]... --reference=RFILE FILE...

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  page  documents  the  GNU	version of chown.
       chown changes the user  and/or  group  ownership	 of  each
       given  file,  according	to its first non-option argument,
       which is interpreted as follows.	 If only a user name  (or
       numeric	user ID) is given, that user is made the owner of
       each given file, and the files' group is not changed.   If
       the  user  name	is followed by a colon or dot and a group
       name (or numeric group ID), with no spaces  between  them,
       the group ownership of the files is changed as well.  If a
       colon or dot but no group name follows the user name, that
       user  is	 made the owner of the files and the group of the
       files is changed to that user's login group.  If the colon
       or  dot and group are given, but the user name is omitted,
       only the group of the files  is	changed;  in  this  case,
       chown performs the same function as chgrp.

       Change the owner and/or group of each FILE to OWNER and/or
       GROUP.

       -c, --changes
	      like verbose but report only when a change is made

       --dereference
	      affect the referent of each symbolic  link,  rather
	      than the symbolic link itself

       -h, --no-dereference
	      affect  symbolic	links  instead	of any referenced
	      file (available only on systems that can change the
	      ownership of a symlink)

       --from=CURRENT_OWNER:CURRENT_GROUP
	      change  the owner and/or group of each file only if
	      its current owner and/or group match  those  speci-
	      fied  here.  Either may be omitted, in which case a
	      match is not required for the omitted attribute.

       -f, --silent, --quiet
	      suppress most error messages

       --reference=RFILE
	      use RFILE's owner and group rather than the  speci-
	      fied OWNER:GROUP values

       -R, --recursive
	      operate on files and directories recursively

       -v, --verbose
	      output a diagnostic for every file processed

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
	      output version information and exit

       Owner  is  unchanged  if	 missing.   Group is unchanged if
       missing, but changed to login group if implied by  a  `:'.
       OWNER and GROUP may be numeric as well as symbolic.

AUTHOR
       Written by David MacKenzie.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-fileutils@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       This  is	 free software; see the source for copying condi-
       tions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY
       or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       The  full  documentation for chown is maintained as a Tex-
       info manual.  If the info and chown programs are	 properly
       installed at your site, the command

	      info chown

       should give you access to the complete manual.



chown (fileutils) 4.1	    April 2001			 CHOWN(1)
