DF(1)			       FSF			    DF(1)



NAME
       df - report filesystem disk space usage

SYNOPSIS
       df [OPTION]... [FILE]...

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents the GNU version of df.  df dis-
       plays the amount of disk space available on the filesystem
       containing  each	 file  name argument.  If no file name is
       given,  the  space  available  on  all  currently  mounted
       filesystems is shown.  Disk space is shown in 1K blocks by
       default, unless the environment	variable  POSIXLY_CORRECT
       is set, in which case 512-byte blocks are used.

       If  an argument is the absolute file name of a disk device
       node containing a mounted filesystem, df shows  the  space
       available on that filesystem rather than on the filesystem
       containing the device  node  (which  is	always	the  root
       filesystem).   This  version  of	 df cannot show the space
       available on unmounted filesystems, because on most  kinds
       of  systems  doing  so  requires very nonportable intimate
       knowledge of filesystem structures.

OPTIONS
       Show information about the filesystem on which  each  FILE
       resides, or all filesystems by default.

       -a, --all
	      include filesystems having 0 blocks

       --block-size=SIZE use SIZE-byte blocks

       -h, --human-readable
	      print sizes in human readable format (e.g., 1K 234M
	      2G)

       -H, --si
	      likewise, but use powers of 1000 not 1024

       -i, --inodes
	      list inode information instead of block usage

       -k, --kilobytes
	      like --block-size=1024

       -l, --local
	      limit listing to local filesystems

       -m, --megabytes
	      like --block-size=1048576

       --no-sync
	      do  not  invoke  sync  before  getting  usage  info
	      (default)

       -P, --portability
	      use the POSIX output format

       --sync invoke sync before getting usage info

       -t, --type=TYPE
	      limit listing to filesystems of type TYPE

       -T, --print-type
	      print filesystem type

       -x, --exclude-type=TYPE
	      limit listing to filesystems not of type TYPE

       -v     (ignored)

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
	      output version information and exit

AUTHOR
       Written	by  Torbjorn  Granlund,	 David	MacKenzie,  Larry
       McVoy, and Paul Eggert.

REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <bug-fileutils@gnu.org>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       This is free software; see the source for  copying  condi-
       tions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY
       or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

SEE ALSO
       The full documentation for df is maintained as  a  Texinfo
       manual.	  If  the  info	 and  df  programs  are	 properly
       installed at your site, the command

	      info df

       should give you access to the complete manual.



df (fileutils) 4.1	    April 2001			    DF(1)
