PERL(1)		 Perl Programmers Reference Guide	  PERL(1)



NAME
       perl - Practical Extraction and Report Language

SYNOPSIS
       perl [ -sTuU ] [ -hv ] [ -V[:configvar] ]
	   [ -cw ] [ -d[:debugger] ] [ -D[number/list] ]
	   [ -pna ] [ -Fpattern ] [ -l[octal] ] [ -0[octal] ]
	   [ -Idir ] [ -m[-]module ] [ -M[-]'module...' ]
	   [ -P ] [ -S ] [ -x[dir] ]
	   [ -i[extension] ] [ -e 'command' ] [ -- ] [ program-
       file ] [ argument ]...

       If you're new to Perl, you should start with perlintro,
       which is a general intro for beginners and provides some
       background to help you navigate the rest of Perl's exten-
       sive documentation.

       For ease of access, the Perl manual has been split up into
       several sections.

       Overview

	   perl		       Perl overview (this section)
	   perlintro	       Perl introduction for beginners
	   perltoc	       Perl documentation table of contents

       Tutorials

	   perlreftut	       Perl references short introduction
	   perldsc	       Perl data structures intro
	   perllol	       Perl data structures: arrays of arrays

	   perlrequick	       Perl regular expressions quick start
	   perlretut	       Perl regular expressions tutorial

	   perlboot	       Perl OO tutorial for beginners
	   perltoot	       Perl OO tutorial, part 1
	   perltooc	       Perl OO tutorial, part 2
	   perlbot	       Perl OO tricks and examples

	   perlstyle	       Perl style guide

	   perltrap	       Perl traps for the unwary
	   perldebtut	       Perl debugging tutorial

	   perlfaq	       Perl frequently asked questions
	     perlfaq1	       General Questions About Perl
	     perlfaq2	       Obtaining and Learning about Perl
	     perlfaq3	       Programming Tools
	     perlfaq4	       Data Manipulation
	     perlfaq5	       Files and Formats
	     perlfaq6	       Regexes
	     perlfaq7	       Perl Language Issues
	     perlfaq8	       System Interaction
	     perlfaq9	       Networking

       Reference Manual





	   perlsyn	       Perl syntax
	   perldata	       Perl data structures
	   perlop	       Perl operators and precedence
	   perlsub	       Perl subroutines
	   perlfunc	       Perl built-in functions
	     perlopentut       Perl open() tutorial
	     perlpacktut       Perl pack() and unpack() tutorial
	   perlpod	       Perl plain old documentation
	   perlpodspec	       Perl plain old documentation format specification
	   perlrun	       Perl execution and options
	   perldiag	       Perl diagnostic messages
	   perllexwarn	       Perl warnings and their control
	   perldebug	       Perl debugging
	   perlvar	       Perl predefined variables
	   perlre	       Perl regular expressions, the rest of the story
	   perlref	       Perl references, the rest of the story
	   perlform	       Perl formats
	   perlobj	       Perl objects
	   perltie	       Perl objects hidden behind simple variables
	     perldbmfilter     Perl DBM filters

	   perlipc	       Perl interprocess communication
	   perlfork	       Perl fork() information
	   perlnumber	       Perl number semantics

	   perlthrtut	       Perl threads tutorial
	     perlothrtut	 Old Perl threads tutorial

	   perlport	       Perl portability guide
	   perllocale	       Perl locale support
	   perluniintro	       Perl Unicode introduction
	   perlunicode	       Perl Unicode support
	   perlebcdic	       Considerations for running Perl on EBCDIC platforms

	   perlsec	       Perl security

	   perlmod	       Perl modules: how they work
	   perlmodlib	       Perl modules: how to write and use
	   perlmodstyle	       Perl modules: how to write modules with style
	   perlmodinstall      Perl modules: how to install from CPAN
	   perlnewmod	       Perl modules: preparing a new module for distribution

	   perlutil	       utilities packaged with the Perl distribution

	   perlcompile	       Perl compiler suite intro

	   perlfilter	       Perl source filters

       Internals and C Language Interface

	   perlembed	       Perl ways to embed perl in your C or C++ application
	   perldebguts	       Perl debugging guts and tips
	   perlxstut	       Perl XS tutorial
	   perlxs	       Perl XS application programming interface
	   perlclib	       Internal replacements for standard C library functions
	   perlguts	       Perl internal functions for those doing extensions
	   perlcall	       Perl calling conventions from C

	   perlapi	       Perl API listing (autogenerated)
	   perlintern	       Perl internal functions (autogenerated)
	   perliol	       C API for Perl's implementation of IO in Layers
	   perlapio	       Perl internal IO abstraction interface

	   perlhack	       Perl hackers guide



       Miscellaneous

	   perlbook	       Perl book information
	   perltodo	       Perl things to do

	   perlhist	       Perl history records
	   perldelta	       Perl changes since previous version
	   perl572delta	       Perl changes in version 5.7.2
	   perl571delta	       Perl changes in version 5.7.1
	   perl570delta	       Perl changes in version 5.7.0
	   perl561delta	       Perl changes in version 5.6.1
	   perl56delta	       Perl changes in version 5.6
	   perl5005delta       Perl changes in version 5.005
	   perl5004delta       Perl changes in version 5.004

       Language-Specific

	   perlcn	       Perl for Simplified Chinese (in EUC-CN)
	   perljp	       Perl for Japanese (in EUC-JP)
	   perlko	       Perl for Korean (in EUC-KR)
	   perltw	       Perl for Traditional Chinese (in Big5)

       Platform-Specific

	   perlaix	       Perl notes for AIX
	   perlamiga	       Perl notes for AmigaOS
	   perlapollo	       Perl notes for Apollo DomainOS
	   perlbeos	       Perl notes for BeOS
	   perlbs2000	       Perl notes for POSIX-BC BS2000
	   perlce	       Perl notes for WinCE
	   perlcygwin	       Perl notes for Cygwin
	   perldgux	       Perl notes for DG/UX
	   perldos	       Perl notes for DOS
	   perlepoc	       Perl notes for EPOC
	   perlfreebsd	       Perl notes for FreeBSD
	   perlhpux	       Perl notes for HP-UX
	   perlhurd	       Perl notes for Hurd
	   perlirix	       Perl notes for Irix
	   perlmachten	       Perl notes for Power MachTen
	   perlmacos	       Perl notes for Mac OS (Classic)
	   perlmint	       Perl notes for MiNT
	   perlmpeix	       Perl notes for MPE/iX
	   perlnetware	       Perl notes for NetWare
	   perlos2	       Perl notes for OS/2
	   perlos390	       Perl notes for OS/390
	   perlplan9	       Perl notes for Plan 9
	   perlqnx	       Perl notes for QNX
	   perlsolaris	       Perl notes for Solaris
	   perltru64	       Perl notes for Tru64
	   perluts	       Perl notes for UTS
	   perlvmesa	       Perl notes for VM/ESA
	   perlvms	       Perl notes for VMS
	   perlvos	       Perl notes for Stratus VOS
	   perlwin32	       Perl notes for Windows

       By default, the manpages listed above are installed in the
       /usr/local/man/ directory.

       Extensive additional documentation for Perl modules is
       available.  The default configuration for perl will place
       this additional documentation in the
       /usr/local/lib/perl5/man directory (or else in the man
       subdirectory of the Perl library directory).  Some of this
       additional documentation is distributed standard with
       Perl, but you'll also find documentation for third-party
       modules there.

       You should be able to view Perl's documentation with your
       man(1) program by including the proper directories in the
       appropriate start-up files, or in the MANPATH environment
       variable.  To find out where the configuration has
       installed the manpages, type:

	   perl -V:man.dir

       If the directories have a common stem, such as
       /usr/local/man/man1 and /usr/local/man/man3, you need only
       to add that stem (/usr/local/man) to your man(1) configu-
       ration files or your MANPATH environment variable.  If
       they do not share a stem, you'll have to add both stems.

       If that doesn't work for some reason, you can still use
       the supplied perldoc script to view module information.
       You might also look into getting a replacement man pro-
       gram.

       If something strange has gone wrong with your program and
       you're not sure where you should look for help, try the -w
       switch first.  It will often point out exactly where the
       trouble is.

DESCRIPTION
       Perl is a language optimized for scanning arbitrary text
       files, extracting information from those text files, and
       printing reports based on that information.  It's also a
       good language for many system management tasks.	The lan-
       guage is intended to be practical (easy to use, efficient,
       complete) rather than beautiful (tiny, elegant, minimal).

       Perl combines (in the author's opinion, anyway) some of
       the best features of C, sed, awk, and sh, so people famil-
       iar with those languages should have little difficulty
       with it.	 (Language historians will also note some ves-
       tiges of csh, Pascal, and even BASIC-PLUS.)  Expression
       syntax corresponds closely to C expression syntax.  Unlike
       most Unix utilities, Perl does not arbitrarily limit the
       size of your data--if you've got the memory, Perl can
       slurp in your whole file as a single string.  Recursion is
       of unlimited depth.  And the tables used by hashes (some-
       times called "associative arrays") grow as necessary to
       prevent degraded performance.  Perl can use sophisticated
       pattern matching techniques to scan large amounts of data
       quickly.	 Although optimized for scanning text, Perl can
       also deal with binary data, and can make dbm files look
       like hashes.  Setuid Perl scripts are safer than C pro-
       grams through a dataflow tracing mechanism that prevents
       many stupid security holes.

       If you have a problem that would ordinarily use sed or awk
       or sh, but it exceeds their capabilities or must run a
       little faster, and you don't want to write the silly thing
       in C, then Perl may be for you.	There are also transla-
       tors to turn your sed and awk scripts into Perl scripts.

       But wait, there's more...

       Begun in 1993 (see perlhist), Perl version 5 is nearly a
       complete rewrite that provides the following additional
       benefits:

       o   modularity and reusability using innumerable modules

	   Described in perlmod, perlmodlib, and perlmodinstall.

       o   embeddable and extensible

	   Described in perlembed, perlxstut, perlxs, perlcall,
	   perlguts, and xsubpp.

       o   roll-your-own magic variables (including multiple
	   simultaneous DBM implementations)

	   Described in perltie and AnyDBM_File.

       o   subroutines can now be overridden, autoloaded, and
	   prototyped

	   Described in perlsub.

       o   arbitrarily nested data structures and anonymous func-
	   tions

	   Described in perlreftut, perlref, perldsc, and perl-
	   lol.

       o   object-oriented programming

	   Described in perlobj, perlboot, perltoot, perltooc,
	   and perlbot.

       o   compilability into C code or Perl bytecode

	   Described in B and B::Bytecode.

       o   support for light-weight processes (threads)

	   Described in perlthrtut and Thread.

       o   support for internationalization, localization, and
	   Unicode

	   Described in perllocale and utf8.

       o   lexical scoping

	   Described in perlsub.

       o   regular expression enhancements

	   Described in perlre, with additional examples in per-
	   lop.

       o   enhanced debugger and interactive Perl environment,
	   with integrated editor support

	   Described in perldebtut, perldebug and perldebguts.

       o   POSIX 1003.1 compliant library

	   Described in POSIX.

       Okay, that's definitely enough hype.

AVAILABILITY
       Perl is available for most operating systems, including
       virtually all Unix-like platforms.  See "Supported Plat-
       forms" in perlport for a listing.

ENVIRONMENT
       See perlrun.

AUTHOR
       Larry Wall <larry@wall.org>, with the help of oodles of
       other folks.

       If your Perl success stories and testimonials may be of
       help to others who wish to advocate the use of Perl in
       their applications, or if you wish to simply express your
       gratitude to Larry and the Perl developers, please write
       to perl-thanks@perl.org .

FILES
	"@INC"		       locations of perl libraries

SEE ALSO
	a2p    awk to perl translator
	s2p    sed to perl translator

	http://www.perl.com/	   the Perl Home Page
	http://www.cpan.org/	   the Comprehensive Perl Archive
	http://www.perl.org/	   Perl Mongers (Perl user groups)

DIAGNOSTICS
       The "use warnings" pragma (and the -w switch) produces
       some lovely diagnostics.

       See perldiag for explanations of all Perl's diagnostics.
       The "use diagnostics" pragma automatically turns Perl's
       normally terse warnings and errors into these longer
       forms.

       Compilation errors will tell you the line number of the
       error, with an indication of the next token or token type
       that was to be examined.	 (In a script passed to Perl via
       -e switches, each -e is counted as one line.)

       Setuid scripts have additional constraints that can pro-
       duce error messages such as "Insecure dependency".  See
       perlsec.

       Did we mention that you should definitely consider using
       the -w switch?

BUGS
       The -w switch is not mandatory.

       Perl is at the mercy of your machine's definitions of var-
       ious operations such as type casting, atof(), and float-
       ing-point output with sprintf().

       If your stdio requires a seek or eof between reads and
       writes on a particular stream, so does Perl.  (This
       doesn't apply to sysread() and syswrite().)

       While none of the built-in data types have any arbitrary
       size limits (apart from memory size), there are still a
       few arbitrary limits:  a given variable name may not be
       longer than 251 characters.  Line numbers displayed by
       diagnostics are internally stored as short integers, so
       they are limited to a maximum of 65535 (higher numbers
       usually being affected by wraparound).

       You may mail your bug reports (be sure to include full
       configuration information as output by the myconfig pro-
       gram in the perl source tree, or by "perl -V") to perl-
       bug@perl.org .  If you've succeeded in compiling perl, the
       perlbug script in the utils/ subdirectory can be used to
       help mail in a bug report.

       Perl actually stands for Pathologically Eclectic Rubbish
       Lister, but don't tell anyone I said that.

NOTES
       The Perl motto is "There's more than one way to do it."
       Divining how many more is left as an exercise to the
       reader.

       The three principal virtues of a programmer are Laziness,
       Impatience, and Hubris.	See the Camel Book for why.



perl v5.8.0		    2002-06-08			  PERL(1)
