jwhois(1)							     jwhois(1)



NAME
       jwhois - client for the whois service

SYNOPSIS
       jwhois  [ OPTIONS ]...  [ QUERY ]

DESCRIPTION
       jwhois searches Whois servers for the object on the command line.

       The host to query is taken from a global configuration file, a configu-
       ration file specified on the command line, or selected directly on  the
       command line.


OPTIONS
       --version
	      display version, authors and licensing information.

       --help display a short help text.

       -c FILE --config=FILE
	      uses FILE as a configuration file instead of the default.

       -h HOST --host=HOST
	      overrides	 any  hosts in the configuration file and queries HOST
	      directly.

       -p PORT --port=PORT
	      specifies a port number to use when querying a HOST.

       -f --force-lookup
	      forces a query to be made to a host even if a current object  is
	      available from the cache.

       -v --verbose
	      outputs  verbose	debugging  information while running (use this
	      before sending a bugreport to ensure that it's indeed a bug  and
	      not  a misconfiguration). You can increase the verbosity by giv-
	      ing several verbose commands to jwhois, such as -vv.

       -n --no-redirect
	      disable features	that  redirect	queries	 from  one  server  to
	      another.

       -s --no-whoisservers
	      disable the built-in support for whois-servers.net.

       -a --raw
	      send query verbatim to receiving hosts instead of rewriting them
	      according to the configuration.

       -i --display-redirections
	      display every step in a redirection (default is to display  only
	      the last answer).

       -d --disable-cache
	      completely disable both reading and writing to cache.

       -r --rwhois
	      force  the  query to use the rwhois protocoll instead of HTTP or
	      whois.

       --rwhois-display=DISPLAY
	      asks receiving rwhois servers to display the results in the DIS-
	      PLAY display instead of the default dump display.

       --rwhois-limit=LIMIT
	      asks  receiving rwhois servers to limit their responses to LIMIT
	      matches.


   RIPE EXTENSIONS
       To use the options specified in RIPE Document 157, you need  to	change
       the  format  of	the  query  slightly.	If  you were to search for all
       entries in the RIPE database which lists the admin-c, tech-c or	zone-c
       as CO19-RIPE, you could use the following command syntax:

       jwhois -h whois.ripe.net -- -i admin-c,tech-c,zone-c CO19-RIPE

       -- is used to separate the RIPE options from the jwhois options.


SEE ALSO
       whois(1)



GNU				 November 2001			     jwhois(1)
