ZIP(1L)							  ZIP(1L)



NAME
       zip,  zipcloak,	zipnote,  zipsplit - package and compress
       (archive) files

SYNOPSIS
       zip     [-aABcdDeEfFghjklLmoqrRSTuvVwXyz!@$]	[-b path]
       [-n suffixes]  [-t mmddyyyy]  [-tt mmddyyyy]  [	zipfile [
       file1 file2 ...]] [-xi list]

       zipcloak [-dhL] [-b path] zipfile

       zipnote [-hwL] [-b path] zipfile

       zipsplit [-hiLpst] [-n size] [-b path] zipfile

DESCRIPTION
       zip is a compression and file packaging utility for  Unix,
       VMS,  MSDOS, OS/2, Windows NT, Minix, Atari and Macintosh,
       Amiga and Acorn RISC OS.

       It is analogous to a  combination  of  the  UNIX	 commands
       tar(1)  and compress(1) and is compatible with PKZIP (Phil
       Katz's ZIP for MSDOS systems).

       A companion program  (unzip(1L)),  unpacks  zip	archives.
       The zip and unzip(1L) programs can work with archives pro-
       duced by PKZIP,	and  PKZIP  and	 PKUNZIP  can  work  with
       archives	 produced  by zip.  zip version 2.3 is compatible
       with PKZIP 2.04.	 Note that PKUNZIP  1.10  cannot  extract
       files  produced	by  PKZIP  2.04	 or zip 2.3. You must use
       PKUNZIP 2.04g  or  unzip	 5.0p1	(or  later  versions)  to
       extract them.

       For a brief help on zip and unzip, run each without speci-
       fying any parameters on the command line.

       The program is useful for packaging a  set  of  files  for
       distribution;  for  archiving  files;  and for saving disk
       space by temporarily compressing unused files or	 directo-
       ries.

       The  zip	 program puts one or more compressed files into a
       single zip archive, along with information about the files
       (name,  path, date, time of last modification, protection,
       and check  information  to  verify  file	 integrity).   An
       entire  directory  structure  can  be  packed  into  a zip
       archive with a single command.  Compression ratios of  2:1
       to 3:1 are common for text files.  zip has one compression
       method (deflation) and can also store files  without  com-
       pression.  zip automatically chooses the better of the two
       for each file to be compressed.

       When given the name of an existing zip archive,	zip  will
       replace	identically  named  entries in the zip archive or
       add entries for new names.  For example, if foo.zip exists
       and  contains  foo/file1	 and foo/file2, and the directory
       foo contains the files foo/file1 and foo/file3, then:

	      zip -r foo foo

       will replace foo/file1 in foo.zip  and  add  foo/file3  to
       foo.zip.	   After   this,   foo.zip   contains  foo/file1,
       foo/file2, and foo/file3, with  foo/file2  unchanged  from
       before.

       If  the	file  list is specified as -@, [Not on MacOS] zip
       takes the list of input files from standard input.   Under
       UNIX,  this  option can be used to powerful effect in con-
       junction	 with  the  find(1)  command.	For  example,  to
       archive	all  the  C source files in the current directory
       and its subdirectories:

	      find . -name "*.[ch]" -print | zip source -@

       (note that the pattern must be quoted to	 keep  the  shell
       from  expanding	it).   zip will also accept a single dash
       ("-") as the zip file name, in which case  it  will  write
       the zip file to standard output, allowing the output to be
       piped to another program. For example:

	      zip -r - . | dd of=/dev/nrst0 obs=16k

       would write the zip output directly to  a  tape	with  the
       specified  block	 size  for  the purpose of backing up the
       current directory.

       zip also accepts a single dash ("-") as the name of a file
       to be compressed, in which case it will read the file from
       standard input, allowing zip to take  input  from  another
       program. For example:

	      tar cf - . | zip backup -

       would  compress the output of the tar command for the pur-
       pose of backing up the current directory.  This	generally
       produces	 better	 compression  than  the	 previous example
       using the -r option, because zip	 can  take  advantage  of
       redundancy between files. The backup can be restored using
       the command

	      unzip -p backup | tar xf -

       When no zip file name is given and stdout is not a  termi-
       nal,  zip  acts as a filter, compressing standard input to
       standard output.	 For example,

	      tar cf - . | zip | dd of=/dev/nrst0 obs=16k

       is equivalent to

	      tar cf - . | zip - - | dd of=/dev/nrst0 obs=16k

       zip archives created in this manner can be extracted  with
       the program funzip which is provided in the unzip package,
       or by gunzip which is provided in the  gzip  package.  For
       example:

       dd if=/dev/nrst0	 ibs=16k | funzip | tar xvf -

       When  changing  an  existing zip archive, zip will write a
       temporary file with the new contents, and only replace the
       old  one	 when the process of creating the new version has
       been completed without error.

       If the name of the zip archive does not contain an  exten-
       sion,  the  extension  .zip  is added. If the name already
       contains an extension other than .zip the existing  exten-
       sion is kept unchanged.

OPTIONS
       -a     [Systems using EBCDIC] Translate file to ASCII for-
	      mat.

       -A     Adjust self-extracting executable archive.  A self-
	      extracting   executable	archive	  is  created  by
	      prepending the SFX stub to an existing archive. The
	      -A  option  tells	 zip  to adjust the entry offsets
	      stored in the archive to	take  into  account  this
	      "preamble" data.

       Note: self-extracting archives for the Amiga are a special
       case.  At present, only the Amiga port of Zip  is  capable
       of adjusting or updating these without corrupting them. -J
       can be used to remove the SFX stub if other  updates  need
       to be made.

       -B     [VM/CMS  and  MVS]  force	 file  to  be read binary
	      (default is text).

       -Bn    [TANDEM] set Edit/Enscribe formatting options  with
	      n defined as
	      bit  0: Don't add delimiter (Edit/Enscribe)
	      bit  1:  Use  LF	rather	than  CR/LF  as delimiter
	      (Edit/Enscribe)
	      bit  2: Space fill record to maximum record  length
	      (Enscribe)
	      bit  3: Trim trailing space (Enscribe)
	      bit  8:  Force 30K (Expand) large read for unstruc-
	      tured files

       -b path
	      Use  the	specified  path	 for  the  temporary  zip
	      archive. For example:

		     zip -b /tmp stuff *

	      will put the temporary zip archive in the directory
	      /tmp, copying over stuff.zip to the current  direc-
	      tory  when  done.	 This  option is only useful when
	      updating an existing archive, and the  file  system
	      containing  this	old  archive does not have enough
	      space to hold both old and new archives at the same
	      time.

       -c     Add  one-line  comments for each file.  File opera-
	      tions (adding, updating) are done	 first,	 and  the
	      user  is	then  prompted for a one-line comment for
	      each file.  Enter the comment followed  by  return,
	      or just return for no comment.

       -d     Remove  (delete)	entries	 from a zip archive.  For
	      example:

		     zip -d foo foo/tom/junk foo/harry/\* \*.o

	      will remove the  entry  foo/tom/junk,  all  of  the
	      files  that  start  with foo/harry/, and all of the
	      files that end with .o (in any  path).   Note  that
	      shell  pathname  expansion  has been inhibited with
	      backslashes, so that zip	can  see  the  asterisks,
	      enabling	zip  to	 match on the contents of the zip
	      archive instead of  the  contents	 of  the  current
	      directory.

	      Under  MSDOS,  -d is case sensitive when it matches
	      names in the zip archive.	 This requires that  file
	      names  be entered in upper case if they were zipped
	      by PKZIP on an MSDOS system.

       -df    [MacOS] Include only data-fork of files zipped into
	      the  archive.   Good for exporting files to foreign
	      operating-systems.  Resource-forks will be  ignored
	      at all.

       -D     Do not create entries in the zip archive for direc-
	      tories.  Directory entries are created  by  default
	      so  that	their  attributes can be saved in the zip
	      archive.	The environment variable  ZIPOPT  can  be
	      used  to	change	the  default options. For example
	      under Unix with sh:

		     ZIPOPT="-D"; export ZIPOPT

	      (The variable ZIPOPT can be  used	 for  any  option
	      except  -i and -x and can include several options.)
	      The option -D is a shorthand for -x  "*/"	 but  the
	      latter cannot be set as default in the ZIPOPT envi-
	      ronment variable.

       -e     Encrypt the contents of the  zip	archive	 using	a
	      password	which  is  entered  on	the  terminal  in
	      response to a prompt (this will not be  echoed;  if
	      standard	error is not a tty, zip will exit with an
	      error).  The password prompt is  repeated	 to  save
	      the user from typing errors.

       -E     [OS/2]  Use  the	.LONGNAME  Extended Attribute (if
	      found) as filename.

       -f     Replace (freshen) an  existing  entry  in	 the  zip
	      archive  only if it has been modified more recently
	      than the version already in the zip archive; unlike
	      the update option (-u) this will not add files that
	      are not already in the zip archive.  For example:

		     zip -f foo

	      This command should be run from the same	directory
	      from  which the original zip command was run, since
	      paths stored in zip archives are always relative.

	      Note that	 the  timezone	environment  variable  TZ
	      should  be  set  according to the local timezone in
	      order for the -f , -u and -o options to  work  cor-
	      rectly.

	      The  reasons  behind  this  are somewhat subtle but
	      have to do with the differences between  the  Unix-
	      format  file  times (always in GMT) and most of the
	      other operating systems (always local time) and the
	      necessity	 to  compare the two.  A typical TZ value
	      is ``MET-1MEST'' (Middle European time  with  auto-
	      matic  adjustment	 for  ``summertime''  or Daylight
	      Savings Time).

       -F     Fix the zip archive. This option	can  be	 used  if
	      some portions of the archive are missing. It is not
	      guaranteed to work, so you MUST make  a  backup  of
	      the original archive first.

	      When  doubled  as in -FF the compressed sizes given
	      inside the damaged archive are not trusted and  zip
	      scans for special signatures to identify the limits
	      between the archive members. The single -F is  more
	      reliable	if  the	 archive is not too much damaged,
	      for example if it has only been truncated,  so  try
	      this option first.

	      Neither option will recover archives that have been
	      incorrectly transferred in ascii	mode  instead  of
	      binary.  After  the  repair, the -t option of unzip
	      may show that some files have a bad CRC. Such files
	      cannot  be  recovered; you can remove them from the
	      archive using the -d option of zip.

       -g     Grow (append to) the specified zip archive, instead
	      of creating a new one. If this operation fails, zip
	      attempts to restore the  archive	to  its	 original
	      state.  If the restoration fails, the archive might
	      become  corrupted.  This	option	is  ignored  when
	      there's  no  existing  archive or when at least one
	      archive member must be updated or deleted.

       -h     Display the zip help information (this also appears
	      if zip is run with no arguments).

       -i files
	      Include only the specified files, as in:

		     zip -r foo . -i \*.c

	      which will include only the files that end in .c in
	      the current directory and its subdirectories. (Note
	      for PKZIP users: the equivalent command is

		     pkzip -rP foo *.c

	      PKZIP does not allow recursion in directories other
	      than the current one.)  The  backslash  avoids  the
	      shell  filename  substitution,  so  that	the  name
	      matching is performed by zip at all directory  lev-
	      els.

	      Also possible:

		     zip -r foo	 . -i@include.lst

	      which  will  only	 include the files in the current
	      directory and its	 subdirectories	 that  match  the
	      patterns in the file include.lst.

       -I     [Acorn  RISC  OS]	 Don't	scan through Image files.
	      When used, zip will not consider Image  files  (eg.
	      DOS  partitions  or  Spark archives when SparkFS is
	      loaded) as directories but will store them as  sin-
	      gle files.

	      For  example, if you have SparkFS loaded, zipping a
	      Spark archive will result in a zipfile containing a
	      directory	 (and  its  content)  while using the 'I'
	      option will result in a zipfile containing a  Spark
	      archive.	Obviously  this	 second case will also be
	      obtained (without the 'I' option) if SparkFS  isn't
	      loaded.

       -j     Store  just  the	name  of  a  saved file (junk the
	      path),  and  do  not  store  directory  names.   By
	      default,	zip will store the full path (relative to
	      the current path).

       -jj    [MacOS] record Fullpath (+ Volname).  The	 complete
	      path  including  volume  will be stored. By default
	      the relative path will be stored.

       -J     Strip any prepended data (e.g. a SFX stub) from the
	      archive.

       -k     Attempt  to  convert the names and paths to conform
	      to MSDOS, store only the MSDOS attribute (just  the
	      user write attribute from UNIX), and mark the entry
	      as made under MSDOS (even though it was  not);  for
	      compatibility with PKUNZIP under MSDOS which cannot
	      handle certain names such as those with two dots.

       -l     Translate the Unix end-of-line  character	 LF  into
	      the  MSDOS convention CR LF. This option should not
	      be used on binary files.	This option can	 be  used
	      on  Unix	if  the	 zip file is intended for PKUNZIP
	      under MSDOS. If the input files already contain  CR
	      LF,  this option adds an extra CR. This ensure that
	      unzip -a on Unix will get back an exact copy of the
	      original file, to undo the effect of zip -l.

       -ll    Translate the MSDOS end-of-line CR LF into Unix LF.
	      This option should not be	 used  on  binary  files.
	      This option can be used on MSDOS if the zip file is
	      intended for unzip under Unix.

       -L     Display the zip license.

       -m     Move the specified  files	 into  the  zip	 archive;
	      actually, this deletes the target directories/files
	      after making the specified zip archive. If a direc-
	      tory  becomes empty after removal of the files, the
	      directory is also removed. No  deletions	are  done
	      until  zip  has  created the archive without error.
	      This is useful for conserving disk  space,  but  is
	      potentially  dangerous  so it is recommended to use
	      it in combination	 with  -T  to  test  the  archive
	      before removing all input files.

       -n suffixes
	      Do  not  attempt	to  compress files named with the
	      given suffixes.  Such files are simply  stored  (0%
	      compression)  in	the  output zip file, so that zip
	      doesn't waste its time  trying  to  compress  them.
	      The  suffixes  are  separated  by	 either colons or
	      semicolons.  For example:

		     zip -rn .Z:.zip:.tiff:.gif:.snd  foo foo

	      will copy everything from	 foo  into  foo.zip,  but
	      will  store  any files that end in .Z, .zip, .tiff,
	      .gif, or	.snd  without  trying  to  compress  them
	      (image  and  sound  files often have their own spe-
	      cialized compression  methods).	By  default,  zip
	      does not compress files with extensions in the list
	      .Z:.zip:.zoo:.arc:.lzh:.arj.  Such files are stored
	      directly	in  the	 output archive.  The environment
	      variable ZIPOPT can be used to change  the  default
	      options. For example under Unix with csh:

		     setenv ZIPOPT "-n .gif:.zip"

	      To attempt compression on all files, use:

		     zip -n : foo

	      The  maximum  compression	 option	 -9 also attempts
	      compression on all files regardless of extension.

	      On Acorn RISC OS systems the suffixes are	 actually
	      filetypes	 (3  hex  digit	 format). By default, zip
	      does not compress files with filetypes in the  list
	      DDC:D96:68E  (i.e.  Archives, CFS files and PackDir
	      files).

       -N     [Amiga, MacOS] Save Amiga	 or  MacOS  filenotes  as
	      zipfile comments. They can be restored by using the
	      -N option of unzip. If -c is  used  also,	 you  are
	      prompted	for comments only for those files that do
	      not have filenotes.

       -o     Set the "last modified" time of the zip archive  to
	      the  latest  (oldest)  "last  modified"  time found
	      among the entries in the zip archive.  This can  be
	      used without any other operations, if desired.  For
	      example:

	      zip -o foo

	      will change the last modified time  of  foo.zip  to
	      the latest time of the entries in foo.zip.


       -P password
	      use  password to encrypt zipfile entries (if
	      any).  THIS IS  INSECURE!	  Many	multi-user
	      operating	 systems provide ways for any user
	      to see the current command line of any other
	      user;  even  on stand-alone systems there is
	      always the threat of over-the-shoulder peek-
	      ing.  Storing the plaintext password as part
	      of a command line in an automated script	is
	      even worse.  Whenever possible, use the non-
	      echoing, interactive prompt to  enter  pass-
	      words.   (And where security is truly impor-
	      tant, use strong encryption such	as  Pretty
	      Good  Privacy instead of the relatively weak
	      encryption  provided  by	standard   zipfile
	      utilities.)

       -q     Quiet mode; eliminate informational messages
	      and comment prompts.  (Useful, for  example,
	      in shell scripts and background tasks).

       -Qn    [QDOS]  store  information about the file in
	      the file header with n defined as
	      bit  0: Don't add headers for any file
	      bit  1: Add headers for all files
	      bit  2: Don't wait for interactive key press
	      on exit

       -r     Travel  the directory structure recursively;
	      for example:

		     zip -r foo foo

	      In this case, all the files and  directories
	      in  foo  are  saved  in  a zip archive named
	      foo.zip, including files with names starting
	      with  ".",  since the recursion does not use
	      the shell's  file-name  substitution  mecha-
	      nism.   If  you  wish to include only a spe-
	      cific subset of the files in  directory  foo
	      and its subdirectories, use the -i option to
	      specify the pattern of files to be included.
	      You  should  not	use -r with the name ".*",
	      since that matches ".."  which will  attempt
	      to zip up the parent directory (probably not
	      what was intended).

       -R     Travel the directory  structure  recursively
	      starting at the current directory; for exam-
	      ple:

		     zip -R foo '*.c'

	      In this case, all the files matching *.c	in
	      the  tree	 starting at the current directory
	      are stored into a zip archive named foo.zip.
	      Note for PKZIP users: the equivalent command
	      is

		     pkzip -rP foo *.c

       -S     [MSDOS, OS/2, WIN32 and ATARI] Include  sys-
	      tem and hidden files.
	      [MacOS]  Includes	 finder	 invisible  files,
	      which are ignored otherwise.

       -t mmddyyyy
	      Do not operate on files  modified	 prior	to
	      the  specified  date,  where mm is the month
	      (0-12), dd is the day of the  month  (1-31),
	      and  yyyy	 is  the  year.	 The ISO 8601 date
	      format yyyy-mm-dd	 is  also  accepted.   For
	      example:

		     zip -rt 12071991 infamy foo

		     zip -rt 1991-12-07 infamy foo

	      will add all the files in foo and its subdi-
	      rectories that  were  last  modified  on	or
	      after  7	December  1991, to the zip archive
	      infamy.zip.

       -tt mmddyyyy
	      Do not operate on files modified after or at
	      the  specified  date,  where mm is the month
	      (0-12), dd is the day of the  month  (1-31),
	      and  yyyy	 is  the  year.	 The ISO 8601 date
	      format yyyy-mm-dd	 is  also  accepted.   For
	      example:

		     zip -rtt 11301995 infamy foo

		     zip -rtt 1995-11-30 infamy foo

	      will add all the files in foo and its subdi-
	      rectories that were last modified before the
	      30   November   1995,  to	 the  zip  archive
	      infamy.zip.

       -T     Test the integrity of the new zip	 file.	If
	      the   check  fails,  the	old  zip  file	is
	      unchanged and (with the -m option) no  input
	      files are removed.

       -u     Replace  (update)	 an  existing entry in the
	      zip archive only if  it  has  been  modified
	      more  recently  than  the version already in
	      the zip archive.	For example:

		     zip -u stuff *

	      will add any new files in the current direc-
	      tory,  and  update any files which have been
	      modified since the zip archive stuff.zip was
	      last  created/modified  (note  that zip will
	      not try to pack stuff.zip into  itself  when
	      you do this).

	      Note  that  the  -u option with no arguments
	      acts like the -f (freshen) option.

       -v     Verbose mode  or	print  diagnostic  version
	      info.

	      Normally,	 when  applied to real operations,
	      this  option  enables  the  display   of	 a
	      progress	indicator  during  compression and
	      requests verbose diagnostic info about  zip-
	      file structure oddities.

	      When  -v	is the only command line argument,
	      and stdout is not redirected to  a  file,	 a
	      diagnostic screen is printed. In addition to
	      the help screen header  with  program  name,
	      version,	and release date, some pointers to
	      the Info-ZIP home and distribution sites are
	      given.  Then, it shows information about the
	      target environment (compiler type	 and  ver-
	      sion,  OS	 version, compilation date and the
	      enabled optional features used to create the
	      zip executable.

       -V     [VMS]   Save   VMS   file	 attributes.   zip
	      archives created with this option will  gen-
	      erally not be usable on other systems.

       -w     [VMS] Append the version number of the files
	      to the name, including multiple versions	of
	      files.   (default:  use only the most recent
	      version of a specified file).

       -x files
	      Explicitly exclude the specified	files,	as
	      in:

		     zip -r foo foo -x \*.o

	      which  will  include  the contents of foo in
	      foo.zip while excluding all the  files  that
	      end  in  .o.  The backslash avoids the shell
	      filename	substitution,  so  that	 the  name
	      matching	is  performed by zip at all direc-
	      tory levels.

	      Also possible:

		     zip -r foo foo -x@exclude.lst

	      which will include the contents  of  foo	in
	      foo.zip  while  excluding all the files that
	      match the patterns in the file  exclude.lst.

       -X     Do  not save extra file attributes (Extended
	      Attributes on OS/2, uid/gid and  file  times
	      on Unix).

       -y     Store  symbolic  links  as  such	in the zip
	      archive, instead of compressing and  storing
	      the  file	 referred  to  by  the	link (UNIX
	      only).

       -z     Prompt for  a  multi-line	 comment  for  the
	      entire zip archive.  The comment is ended by
	      a line containing just a period, or  an  end
	      of  file condition (^D on UNIX, ^Z on MSDOS,
	      OS/2, and	 VAX/VMS).   The  comment  can	be
	      taken from a file:

		     zip -z foo < foowhat

       -#     Regulate	the speed of compression using the
	      specified digit #,  where	 -0  indicates	no
	      compression  (store all files), -1 indicates
	      the fastest compression  method  (less  com-
	      pression)	 and -9 indicates the slowest com-
	      pression	 method	  (optimal    compression,
	      ignores  the  suffix list). The default com-
	      pression level is -6.

       -!     [WIN32]  Use  priviliges	(if  granted)	to
	      obtain all aspects of WinNT security.

       -@     Take  the	 list of input files from standard
	      input. Only one filename per line.

       -$     [MSDOS,  OS/2,  WIN32]  Include  the  volume
	      label  for  the  the drive holding the first
	      file to  be  compressed.	 If  you  want	to
	      include  only the volume label or to force a
	      specific drive, use the drive name as  first
	      file name, as in:

		     zip -$ foo a: c:bar


EXAMPLES
       The simplest example:

	      zip stuff *

       creates the archive stuff.zip (assuming it does not
       exist) and puts all the files in the current direc-
       tory  in it, in compressed form (the .zip suffix is
       added automatically, unless that archive name given
       contains	 a  dot	 already; this allows the explicit
       specification of other suffixes).

       Because of the way the shell does filename  substi-
       tution,	files  starting with "." are not included;
       to include these as well:

	      zip stuff .* *

       Even this will not include any subdirectories  from
       the current directory.

       To zip up an entire directory, the command:

	      zip -r foo foo

       creates	the  archive  foo.zip,	containing all the
       files and directories in the directory foo that	is
       contained within the current directory.

       You  may	 want  to make a zip archive that contains
       the files in foo, without recording  the	 directory
       name,  foo.  You can use the -j option to leave off
       the paths, as in:

	      zip -j foo foo/*

       If you are short on disk space, you might not  have
       enough room to hold both the original directory and
       the corresponding compressed zip archive.  In  this
       case, you can create the archive in steps using the
       -m option.  If foo contains the subdirectories tom,
       dick, and harry, you can:

	      zip -rm foo foo/tom
	      zip -rm foo foo/dick
	      zip -rm foo foo/harry

       where  the  first  command creates foo.zip, and the
       next two add to it.  At the completion of each  zip
       command,	 the last created archive is deleted, mak-
       ing room for the next zip command to function.

PATTERN MATCHING
       This section applies  only  to  UNIX.   Watch  this
       space for details on MSDOS and VMS operation.

       The UNIX shells (sh(1) and csh(1)) do filename sub-
       stitution on command arguments.	The special  char-
       acters are:

       ?      match any single character

       *      match  any  number  of characters (including
	      none)

       []     match any character in the  range	 indicated
	      within the brackets (example: [a-f], [0-9]).

       When  these  characters	are  encountered  (without
       being  escaped  with  a	backslash  or quotes), the
       shell will look for files relative to  the  current
       path  that match the pattern, and replace the argu-
       ment with a list of the names that matched.

       The zip program can do the same matching	 on  names
       that  are  in the zip archive being modified or, in
       the case	 of  the  -x  (exclude)	 or  -i	 (include)
       options, on the list of files to be operated on, by
       using backslashes or quotes to tell the	shell  not
       to  do  the  name  expansion.  In general, when zip
       encounters a name in the list of files  to  do,	it
       first looks for the name in the file system.  If it
       finds it, it then adds it to the list of	 files	to
       do.   If it does not find it, it looks for the name
       in the zip archive being modified (if  it  exists),
       using  the  pattern  matching  characters described
       above, if present.  For each  match,  it	 will  add
       that  name  to  the  list of files to be processed,
       unless this name matches	 one  given  with  the	-x
       option,	or  does not match any name given with the
       -i option.

       The pattern matching includes the path, and so pat-
       terns  like  \*.o  match names that end in ".o", no
       matter what the path  prefix  is.   Note	 that  the
       backslash  must	precede	 every	special	 character
       (i.e.  ?*[]),  or  the  entire  argument	 must	be
       enclosed in double quotes ("").

       In  general,  use backslash to make zip do the pat-
       tern matching with the -f (freshen) and -d (delete)
       options,	 and  sometimes	 after	the  -x	 (exclude)
       option when  used  with	an  appropriate	 operation
       (add, -u, -f, or -d).

ENVIRONMENT
       ZIPOPT contains	default	 options that will be used
	      when running zip

       ZIP    [Not on RISC OS and VMS] see ZIPOPT

       Zip$Options
	      [RISC OS] see ZIPOPT

       Zip$Exts
	      [RISC OS] contains extensions separated by a
	      :	 that will cause native filenames with one
	      of the specified extensions to be	 added	to
	      the  zip	file  with  basename and extension
	      swapped.	zip

       ZIP_OPTS
	      [VMS] see ZIPOPT

SEE ALSO
       compress(1), shar(1L), tar(1), unzip(1L), gzip(1L)

DIAGNOSTICS
       The exit status (or error level)	 approximates  the
       exit  codes defined by PKWARE and takes on the fol-
       lowing values, except under VMS:

	      0	     normal;   no   errors   or	  warnings
		     detected.

	      2	     unexpected end of zip file.

	      3	     a generic error in the zipfile format
		     was detected.   Processing	 may  have
		     completed	successfully  anyway; some
		     broken  zipfiles  created	by   other
		     archivers have simple work-arounds.

	      4	     zip was unable to allocate memory for
		     one or more  buffers  during  program
		     initialization.

	      5	     a	severe error in the zipfile format
		     was  detected.   Processing  probably
		     failed immediately.

	      6	     entry too large to be split with zip-
		     split

	      7	     invalid comment format

	      8	     zip -T failed or out of memory

	      9	     the user aborted zip prematurely with
		     control-C (or similar)

	      10     zip  encountered an error while using
		     a temp file

	      11     read or seek error

	      12     zip has nothing to do

	      13     missing or empty zip file

	      14     error writing to a file

	      15     zip was unable to create  a  file	to
		     write to

	      16     bad command line parameters

	      18     zip  could	 not open a specified file
		     to read

       VMS interprets standard Unix (or PC) return  values
       as  other,  scarier-looking  things, so zip instead
       maps them into VMS-style status codes.  The current
       mapping	is  as	follows:    1 (success) for normal
       exit,
	and (0x7fff000? +  16*normal_zip_exit_status)  for
       all  errors,  where  the `?' is 0 (warning) for zip
       value 12, 2 (error) for the zip values 3, 6, 7,	9,
       13,  16,	 18, and 4 (fatal error) for the remaining
       ones.

BUGS
       zip 2.3 is not compatible with  PKUNZIP	1.10.  Use
       zip 1.1 to produce zip files which can be extracted
       by PKUNZIP 1.10.

       zip files produced by zip 2.3 must not  be  updated
       by zip 1.1 or PKZIP 1.10, if they contain encrypted
       members or if they have been produced in a pipe	or
       on  a  non-seekable device. The old versions of zip
       or PKZIP would create an archive with an	 incorrect
       format.	 The old versions can list the contents of
       the zip file but cannot extract it anyway  (because
       of  the	new compression algorithm).  If you do not
       use encryption and use regular disk files,  you	do
       not have to care about this problem.

       Under  VMS,  not	 all  of  the odd file formats are
       treated properly.  Only stream-LF format zip  files
       are  expected to work with zip.	Others can be con-
       verted using Rahul Dhesi's BILF program.	 This ver-
       sion  of	 zip handles some of the conversion inter-
       nally.  When using Kermit  to  transfer	zip  files
       from  Vax  to  MSDOS, type "set file type block" on
       the Vax.	 When transfering from MSDOS to Vax,  type
       "set  file  type fixed" on the Vax.  In both cases,
       type "set file type binary" on MSDOS.

       Under VMS, zip hangs for	 file  specification  that
       uses DECnet syntax foo::*.*.

       On OS/2, zip cannot match some names, such as those
       including an exclamation mark or a hash sign.  This
       is  a  bug  in  OS/2  itself:  the  32-bit DosFind-
       First/Next don't find such names.   Other  programs
       such as GNU tar are also affected by this bug.

       Under  OS/2, the amount of Extended Attributes dis-
       played by DIR is	 (for  compatibility)  the  amount
       returned	  by   the  16-bit  version  of	 DosQuery-
       PathInfo(). Otherwise OS/2 1.3 and 2.0 would report
       different  EA  sizes  when DIRing a file.  However,
       the structure layout returned by	 the  32-bit  Dos-
       QueryPathInfo()	is  a bit different, it uses extra
       padding bytes and  link	pointers  (it's	 a  linked
       list)  to  have all fields on 4-byte boundaries for
       portability to future RISC OS/2 versions. Therefore
       the  value reported by zip (which uses this 32-bit-
       mode size) differs from that reported by DIR.   zip
       stores  the 32-bit format for portability, even the
       16-bit MS-C-compiled version running on	OS/2  1.3,
       so even this one shows the 32-bit-mode size.

AUTHORS
       Copyright  (C)  1990-1997  Mark	Adler,	Richard B.
       Wales, Jean-loup Gailly, Onno van der  Linden,  Kai
       Uwe  Rommel,  Igor Mandrichenko, John Bush and Paul
       Kienitz.	 Permission is granted to  any	individual
       or  institution	to use, copy, or redistribute this
       software so long as all of the original	files  are
       included,  that it is not sold for profit, and that
       this copyright notice is retained.

       LIKE ANYTHING ELSE THAT'S FREE, ZIP AND ITS ASSOCI-
       ATED  UTILITIES ARE PROVIDED AS IS AND COME WITH NO
       WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR  IMPLIED.
       IN  NO  EVENT  WILL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE
       FOR ANY DAMAGES RESULTING  FROM	THE  USE  OF  THIS
       SOFTWARE.

       Please  send  bug reports and comments by email to:
       zip-bugs@lists.wku.edu.	For  bug  reports,  please
       include	the  version of zip (see zip-h ), the make
       options used to compile it see zip-v ), the machine
       and operating system in use, and as much additional
       information as possible.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
       Thanks to R. P. Byrne for his  Shrink.Pas  program,
       which  inspired	this  project,	and from which the
       shrink algorithm was stolen; to Phil Katz for plac-
       ing  in the public domain the zip file format, com-
       pression format, and .ZIP filename  extension,  and
       for  accepting minor changes to the file format; to
       Steve Burg for clarifications on the  deflate  for-
       mat;  to	 Haruhiko  Okumura and Leonid Broukhis for
       providing some useful  ideas  for  the  compression
       algorithm;  to  Keith  Petersen, Rich Wales, Hunter
       Goatley and Mark Adler for providing a mailing list
       and  ftp	 site  for  the Info-ZIP group to use; and
       most importantly,  to  the  Info-ZIP  group  itself
       (listed	in  the	 file  infozip.who)  without whose
       tireless testing and bug-fixing efforts a  portable
       zip  would  not	have  been  possible.	Finally we
       should thank (blame) the first Info-ZIP	moderator,
       David  Kirschbaum, for getting us into this mess in
       the first place.	 The manual page was rewritten for
       UNIX by R. P. C. Rodgers.



Info-ZIP	      14 August 1999 (v2.3)		  ZIP(1L)
